README.md, before:

# csv2ical

[![Testing badge](https://github.com/rlan/csv2ical/actions/workflows/tests.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/rlan/csv2ical/actions/workflows/tests.yml)
![Python versions](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.8%20%7C%203.9%20%7C%203.10%20%7C%203.11%20%7C%203.12%20%7C%203.13-blue)
![MIT license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/rlan/csv2ical)
[![Hatch project](https://img.shields.io/badge/%F0%9F%A5%9A-Hatch-4051b5.svg)](https://github.com/pypa/hatch)
[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/DOI/10.5281/zenodo.15024834.svg)](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.15024834)

A CLI tool that converts a CSV file with event details into an iCalendar [ICS](https://docs.fileformat.com/email/ics/) file. The ICS file can then be imported into apps like Google Calendar, Microsoft Outlook, Apple macOS Calendar and etc.

Prerequisite:

* [pipx](https://github.com/pypa/pipx) (not pip).

Installation:

```sh
pipx install git+https://github.com/rlan/csv2ical
```


Update, if already installed:

```sh
pipx upgrade csv2ical
```


Uninstall:

```sh
pipx uninstall csv2ical
```


Usage:

```sh
csv2ical --help
```

```txt
usage: csv2ical [-h] input output

positional arguments:
  input       Input csv file containing calendar events
  output      Output ics file

optional arguments:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit
```


Example:

[`sample.csv`](sample.csv):

```csv
"Subject","Start Date","Start Time","End Date","End Time","Description","Location"
"Harry Potter birthday","1980-07-31","00:00","1980-08-01","00:00","The Chosen One","Godric's Hollow"
"Ron Weasley birthday","1980-03-01","00:00","1980-03-02","00:00","Won-Won","Ottery St Catchpole"
"Hermione Granger birthday","1979-09-19","00:00","1979-09-20","00:00","'Mione",""
```

An all-day event starts at midnight and ends at the midnight of the next day. Although `sample.csv` contains only all-day events, e.g. birthdays, any shorter events, e.g. meetings, would also work.

The names in the CSV header row is documentation. It tells the author of the CSV file which column to write the event details. Editing that row has no effect on the output ICS file, but **do not** omit it.


Reproduce [`sample.ics`](sample.ics):

```sh
csv2ical sample.csv sample.ics
```

```sh
cat sample.ics
```

```txt
BEGIN:VCALENDAR
VERSION:2.0
PRODID:-//sample.csv//mxm.dk//
BEGIN:VEVENT
SUMMARY:Harry Potter birthday
DTSTART;VALUE=DATE-TIME:19800731T000000
DTEND;VALUE=DATE-TIME:19800801T000000
DESCRIPTION:The Chosen One
LOCATION:Godric's Hollow
END:VEVENT
BEGIN:VEVENT
SUMMARY:Ron Weasley birthday
DTSTART;VALUE=DATE-TIME:19800301T000000
DTEND;VALUE=DATE-TIME:19800302T000000
DESCRIPTION:Won-Won
LOCATION:Ottery St Catchpole
END:VEVENT
BEGIN:VEVENT
SUMMARY:Hermione Granger birthday
DTSTART;VALUE=DATE-TIME:19790919T000000
DTEND;VALUE=DATE-TIME:19790920T000000
DESCRIPTION:'Mione
LOCATION:
END:VEVENT
END:VCALENDAR
```


For developers:

* Install [hatch](https://github.com/pypa/hatch).
  * Lint: `hatch fmt`
  * Test: `hatch test --all`
  * Versioning: `hatch version`


Citation:

If this project helps your research, don't hesitate to spread the word! Click on the badge below and find citation formats (e.g., BibTeX and etc) at the bottom of that page.

[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/DOI/10.5281/zenodo.15024834.svg)](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.15024834)


License:

[MIT](LICENSE)

Commit message:

Use click for handling arguments

README.md, after:

# csv2ical

[![Testing badge](https://github.com/rlan/csv2ical/actions/workflows/tests.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/rlan/csv2ical/actions/workflows/tests.yml)
![Python versions](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.8%20%7C%203.9%20%7C%203.10%20%7C%203.11%20%7C%203.12%20%7C%203.13-blue)
![MIT license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/rlan/csv2ical)
[![Hatch project](https://img.shields.io/badge/%F0%9F%A5%9A-Hatch-4051b5.svg)](https://github.com/pypa/hatch)
[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/DOI/10.5281/zenodo.15024834.svg)](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.15024834)

A CLI tool that converts a CSV file with event details into an iCalendar [ICS](https://docs.fileformat.com/email/ics/) file. The ICS file can then be imported into apps like Google Calendar, Microsoft Outlook, Apple macOS Calendar and etc.

Prerequisite:

* [pipx](https://github.com/pypa/pipx) (not pip).

Installation:

```sh
pipx install git+https://github.com/rlan/csv2ical
```


Update, if already installed:

```sh
pipx upgrade csv2ical
```


Uninstall:

```sh
pipx uninstall csv2ical
```


Usage:

```sh
csv2ical --help
```

```txt
csv2ical --help
Usage: csv2ical [OPTIONS] CSV_NAME ICS_NAME

  Converts a CSV file with event information to an iCalendar ICS file, which
  can be imported into Google Calendar, Microsoft Outlook, macOS calendar and
  etc.

  CSV_NAME is the file name of a CSV file with event information.

  ICS_NAME is the resulting iCalendar ICS file.

Options:
  --version  Show the version and exit.
  --help     Show this message and exit.
```


Example:

[`sample.csv`](sample.csv):

```csv
"Subject","Start Date","Start Time","End Date","End Time","Description","Location"
"Harry Potter birthday","1980-07-31","00:00","1980-08-01","00:00","The Chosen One","Godric's Hollow"
"Ron Weasley birthday","1980-03-01","00:00","1980-03-02","00:00","Won-Won","Ottery St Catchpole"
"Hermione Granger birthday","1979-09-19","00:00","1979-09-20","00:00","'Mione",""
```

An all-day event starts at midnight and ends at the midnight of the next day. Although `sample.csv` contains only all-day events, e.g. birthdays, any shorter events, e.g. meetings, would also work.

The names in the CSV header row is documentation. It tells the author of the CSV file which column to write the event details. Editing that row has no effect on the output ICS file, but **do not** omit it.


Reproduce [`sample.ics`](sample.ics):

```sh
csv2ical sample.csv sample.ics
```

```sh
cat sample.ics
```

```txt
BEGIN:VCALENDAR
VERSION:2.0
PRODID:-//sample.csv//mxm.dk//
BEGIN:VEVENT
SUMMARY:Harry Potter birthday
DTSTART;VALUE=DATE-TIME:19800731T000000
DTEND;VALUE=DATE-TIME:19800801T000000
DESCRIPTION:The Chosen One
LOCATION:Godric's Hollow
END:VEVENT
BEGIN:VEVENT
SUMMARY:Ron Weasley birthday
DTSTART;VALUE=DATE-TIME:19800301T000000
DTEND;VALUE=DATE-TIME:19800302T000000
DESCRIPTION:Won-Won
LOCATION:Ottery St Catchpole
END:VEVENT
BEGIN:VEVENT
SUMMARY:Hermione Granger birthday
DTSTART;VALUE=DATE-TIME:19790919T000000
DTEND;VALUE=DATE-TIME:19790920T000000
DESCRIPTION:'Mione
LOCATION:
END:VEVENT
END:VCALENDAR
```


For developers:

* Install [hatch](https://github.com/pypa/hatch).
  * Lint: `hatch fmt`
  * Test: `hatch test --all`
  * Versioning: `hatch version`


Citation:

If this project helps your research, don't hesitate to spread the word! Click on the badge below and find citation formats (e.g., BibTeX and etc) at the bottom of that page.

[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/DOI/10.5281/zenodo.15024834.svg)](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.15024834)


License:

[MIT](LICENSE)
